# 03_CanvasIntro
Name:
	Beans, Babies, and Butts

Creative director:
	Clay Skaggs

Story line:
	Your name is Bill. You are a very flatulent person, and you are not afraid to show it. Sometimes its gets you in trouble. One day you are in a Mexican resturant and you fart in front of the restaurant owner. The restaurant owner then chases you. Your goal is to lose him and his goal is to catch up to you. You can use your flatulence to your advantage.

Gameplay description:
	You are running on the street with the restaurant owner chasing you. You are on the right side of the screen and the restaurant owner is on the left. You are both running in the same rate. The streets are covered with beans and babies. If you run into a baby you trip and your character pauses for a second (falling further left on the screen). If you run into a bean your bean-o-meter fills up. When it gets completely full then you are able to fart by clicking the space bar. The fart goes directly behind you. When you fart if the fart hits the restaurant owner, he is pushed back. Regardless of if he is hit, you are boosted forward a little bit. You are able to avoid babies and track beans by moving up and down with the up and down button.

Goals / objectives:
	You can win two ways. (1) you move off the screen to the right before the owner catches you and (2) you push the owner off the left of the screen from farting. You lose if the owner catches you. If you lose you can retry that level or any level you have already beat. If you win you can play the next level or replay any level you have beaten. That is the primary objective. The secondary objective is time. Each time you play there is a stopwatch that times how long it takes you to win. Your best score will be saved for each level and you can keep trying to reply to lower your score.

Levels:
	On level one it is just described as above. On level two there is a gassy guy in front of you who is spewing farts on you which puts you back. On level three there are three gassy guys in front of you. On level four there are three gassy buys and one pregnant woman who delivers babies you can trip over. On level five there are three of both. The next level can only be reached if Bill the customer reaches the end of the

Multiplayer option:
	For multiplayer option one person can be the restaurant owner and one person can be the gassy customer. In regular play the restaurant owner will just run directly behind the customer the whole time but in multiplayer the owner will be able to move up and down however he or she pleases. In single-player mode the owner will not be affected from the beans or babies but in multiplayer the owner can trip over babies and can collect beans for a fart boost. The owners fart boost will propel the owner forward but will not adversely affect the customer. Also for multiplayer offers some possibilities that would not occur in standard game play. There is a possibility of the owner reaching the x-position of the customer (or exceeding it) without touching the customer. This does not matter. The owner must touch the customer. This will lead to some interesting game play. If the owner runs off the right of the screen before the customer, the customer wins. There is only one level for multi-player and it includes no pregnant women or farting men. Also in multiplayer, the owner will use the key ‘w’ for up and ‘s’ for down.

Specifics:
	While it will not appear so, the characters, the beans and the babies will be moving within a grid. This grid will be consist of tiles (which are invisible but exist in the code) that can contain characters and/or objects. The grid will have 28 tiles across the screen left-to-right (x-axis) and will have 15 tiles vertically (y-axis). The 28th horizontal column is off screen on the right. We will refer to the top left tile on the screen as (0,0) and the bottom right tile as (27,15). The customer will begin at (22,8) and the owner will begin at (6,8). The beans and the babies will randomly generate in the 28th row. Every column will have 0 to 3 of each babies and beans generated each time (the number of each should be randomly generated separately). The beans and the babies should move backwards at a rate of 1 tile per second. A fart will move backwards in all the tiles to the left of the customer. It should move at a rate of 3 tiles per second. A fart hitting the owner should move him back one tiles and should push the customer forward one tile. Tripping on a baby moves both characters back 2 tiles. In multiplayer mode, a fart by the owner should move him or her two tiles forward. The pregnant women and gassy men which come in in the later levels should live in the 27th column and randomly move up and down. They should move every second and give birth or fart every second. Note: for both the customer and the owner, the up arrow should decrease y-position by 1 (move up 1 tile) and the down arrow should increase the x-position by 1 (move down 1 tile). For the customer (and the owner during multiplayer) the bean-o-meter requires 5 beans to allow a fart. Each character must have some hidden instance variable with number of beans and some sort of canFart boolean. One the character farts, the bean count should go back to zero regardless of how high it was before the fart. When the customer hits a tile in the 28th column it causes you to win. Also when a character interacts with a baby or a bean by being on the same tile as it, the baby or bean will disappear.

Animations:
	The characters should be staying in the same tile if not acted on but their legs should be animated to look like they are running. The background (a street) should be constantly moving from right to left, creating the appearance that the characters are running. The street should move back at the same pace as the beans and babies so it appears that the beans and babies are stationary on the street.

Possible experimental feature:
	When you fart the computer will have a system attached to it which will omit fart smells. Another possible experimental feature is a little box in the bottom corner of the screen which has live streaming of your face while you play the game. When you win or lose a game it will save the photo of your face at that moment and attach it to the level in a photo album, that way you can relive the best and worst moments of your gameplay experience. I think this has tremendous potential in the narcissistic society we live in today.
